federalist 50 periodical appeals to the
people
considered from the new york packet
tuesday february 5th
1788 hamilton or madison
to the people of the state of new york
it may be contended perhaps that instead
of occasional appeals to the people
which are liable to the objections urged
against them periodical appeals are the
proper and adequate means of preventing
and correcting infractions of the
constitution
it will be attended to that in the
examination of these expedients
i confine myself to their aptitude for
enforcing the constitution
by keeping the several departments of
power within their due bounds
without particularly considering them as
provisions for altering the constitution
itself
in the first view appeals to the people
at fixed periods appear to be nearly as
ineligible as appeals on particular
occasions as they emerge
if the periods be separated by short
intervals the measures to be reviewed
and rectified will have been of recent
date
and will be connected with all the
circumstances which tend to vitiate and
pervert the result of occasional
revisions
if the periods be distant from each
other the same remark will be applicable
to all recent measures
and in proportion as the remoteness of
the others may favor a dispassionate
review of them
this advantage is inseparable from
inconveniences which seem to
counterbalance it
in the first place a distant prospect of
public censure would be a very feeble
restraint on power from those excesses
to which it might be urged by the force
of present motives
is it to be imagined that a legislative
assembly consisting of 100 or 200
members
eagerly bent on some favorable object
and breaking through the restraint of
the constitution in pursuit of it would
be arrested in their career by
considerations drawn from a sensorial
revision of their conduct at the future
distance of 10
15 or 20 years in the next place the
abuses would often have completed their
mischievous effects before the remedial
provisions would be applied
and in the last place where this might
not be the case they would be of long
standing
would have taken deep root and would not
easily be extirpated
the scheme of revising the constitution
in order to correct recent breaches of
it as well as for
other purposes has been actually tried
in one of the states
one of the objects of the council of
censors which met in pennsylvania in
1783 and 1784
was as we have seen to inquire whether
the constitution had been violated and
whether the legislative and executive
departments had encroached upon each
other
this important and novel experiment in
politics merits
in several points of view very
particular attention
in some of them it may perhaps as a
single experiment made under
circumstances
somewhat peculiar be thought to be
absolutely conclusive but as applied to
the case under consideration
it involves some facts which i venture
to remark as a complete and satisfactory
illustration of the reasoning which i
have employed
first it appears from the names of the
gentlemen who composed the council that
some
at least of its most active members had
also been active and leading characters
in the parties which pre-existed in the
state
secondly it appears that the same active
and leading members of the council
had been active and influential members
of the legislature and executive
branches within the period to be
reviewed and even patrons or opponents
of the very measures to be thus brought
to the test of the constitution
two of the members had been vice
presidents of the state and several
other members of the executive council
within the seven preceding years
one of them had been speaker and a
number of others distinguished members
of the legislative assembly within the
same period
thirdly every page of their proceedings
witnesses the effect of all these
circumstances
on the temper of their deliberations
throughout the continuance of the
council
it was split into two fixed and violent
parties
the fact is acknowledged and lamented by
themselves
had this not been the case the face of
their proceedings exhibits a proof
equally satisfactory in all questions
however unimportant in themselves
or unconnected with each other the same
names stand invariably contrasted on the
opposite
columns every unbiased observer may
infer without danger of mistake and
at the same time without meaning to
reflect on either party or any
individuals of either party that
unfortunately
passion not reason must have presided
over their decisions
when men exercise their reason coolly
and freely on a variety of distinct
questions
they inevitably fall into different
opinions on some of them
when they are governed by a common
passion their opinions if they are so to
be called
will be the same fourthly it is at least
problematical
whether the decisions of this body do
not in several instances
misconstrue the limits prescribed for
the legislative and executive
departments
instead of reducing and limiting them
within their constitutional places
fifthly i have never understood that the
decisions of the council on
constitutional
questions whether rightly or erroneously
formed have had any effect on varying
the practice founded on legislative
constructions
it even appears if i mistake not that in
one instance the contemporary
legislature denied the constructions of
the council
and actually prevailed in the contest
this sensorial body therefore
proves at the same time by its
researchers the existence of the disease
and by its example the inefficacy of the
remedy
this conclusion cannot be invalidated by
alleging that the state
in which the experiment was made was at
that crisis and had been for a long time
before
violently heated and distracted by the
rage of party
is it to be presumed that at any future
ceptinial epic
the same state will be free from parties
is it to be presumed that any other
state at the same or any other given
period will be exempt from them
such an event ought to be neither
presumed nor desired
because an extinction of parties
necessarily implies either a universal
alarm for the public safety or an
absolute extinction of liberty
where the precaution taken of excluding
from the assemblies elected by the
people to revise the preceding
administration of the government
all persons who should have been
concerned with the government within the
given period the difficulties would not
be obviated
the important task would probably
devolve on men who
with inferior capacities would in other
respects be little better qualified
although they might not have been
personally concerned in the
administration
and therefore not immediately agents in
the measures to be examined they would
probably have been involved in the
parties connected with these measures
and have been elected under their
auspices publius